>> This is "Nuevo," the story
of the piece of metal that was
recovered from the interior of
an extraterrestrial ship in San
Antonio, New Mexico.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Gaia presents "Nuevo"
with Jaime Maussan.
>> On July 16, 1945, an atomic
bomb was detonated in a place
known as Trinity in New Mexico,
very close to San Antonio,
New Mexico.
There on a ranch, two children
who were looking for a lost cow
saw an extraterrestrial
ship crash land.
From that ship,
a few days later,
they would extract
a piece of metal
that has been kept hidden
for more than 70 years
and that now has been analyzed.
This is an exclusive
disclosure of "Nuevo."
>> On August 16, 1945, just one
month after an atomic bomb was
detonated in a place known
as Trinity in New Mexico,
only 15 kilometers away on the
property of the Padilla family,
a ship fell from space.
The ship measured about five
meters in height and 10 meters
in diameter.
It came down and crashed
into a brick tower
that had an antenna on top.
After impacting
the tower, it fell
to the ground, slid
for about 70 meters
until it stopped on
a sandbank, which
was part of an old stream bed.
The object had a
hole from the damage
that was three meters
high and two meters wide.
Two children saw the crash--
Jose Padilla, seven years old,
and Remigio, or Reme, Baca
six years old.
They both observed
with their binoculars,
for almost two
hours, beings that
moved about inside the ship.
They could see that they were
practically the same height
as they were just
over one meter.
They noticed they
had four fingers
on each hand, elongated
eyes, and no hair or ears.
They appeared to be wearing
silver suits which were
tight against their bodies.
One of the beings was lying on
the ground and did not move.
Two days later, the
beings had disappeared,
and the ship had been moved
and was hidden out of sight.
The remains of the
bodies were gone, too.
This sighting occurred
about 48 hours
before the Army showed
up on August 20, 1945.
The Army fenced the
crash v and removed
the remains of the ship.
For one week, seven military
personnel worked there.
Every day the children
returned to observe them
with their binoculars.
On the last day,
August 28, the ship
was loaded onto a military
transport vehicle.
The men left their truck
and cargo unattended
and headed to the Owl Bar Cafe
in San Antonio that night.
Jose and Reme then climbed into
the truck, entered the ship,
taking a souvenir from inside.
They hid it.
And although the
military personnel
ended up searching their homes,
they couldn't find the item.
>> Today, 72 years later, the
piece of metal that was extract
from that ship and its analysis
are presented on "Nuevo."
Remigio Baca, known as
Reme, died on July 13, 2013
at 74 years of age.
Before he died, he
gave me an interview
in which he details this
extraordinary experience
with his friend Jose Padilla.
>> Today, here on "Nuevo," we
present the last interview Reme
gave during his life, a personal
experience and exclusive
interview.
He always insisted that
his story was true.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> Remigio Baca, just 6
years old at the time,
perfectly recalls what happened
on that day, August 16, 1945.
>> We hear this big, loud sound.
But it's not there.
It's a couple of canyons away.
And you see this
flash, you know.
And I said, what the
hell is that, Jose?
Jose says, I hope they're not
testing another bomb, you know.
Yeah.
And so I said, ah, I
hope not, you know.
So well, let's--
now let's go see.
So we started walking towards
that way, and it was tough.
The rocks are hard on your feet.
And it's hot out there.
You've got, you know,
high temperature.
And so we went over this ledge,
and we saw some smoke coming.
So we now we have a direction.
And so well, maybe a plane must
have gotten down, you know.
And somebody might
need some help.
So that was our intention.
We would-- we made
our way there,
and we got down the hill.
And the smoke and
rocks were hot.
And we started-- we saw this
gouge in the-- the only way I
can describe it--
in the dirt like a
big blade had gone by.
Only this big blade was
maybe like 50 feet long,
you know, like a grater, only
big and maybe like a foot deep.
And so we started
following this.
And then we started watching
debris, pieces of stuff
on the ground.
And so I'm looking at them.
So I look at this one piece.
Out of the corner of my eye,
I saw this thing glitter
and flicker.
And so I reached--
it was under a rock.
So I reached for the rock
and got it, you know.
And I was looking at it.
And I said, Jose, look at this.
Oh yeah.
So I looked at that.
And it was scrunched, you know.
And so when I put it in my hand,
it kind of like [INAUDIBLE],,
unfolded.
And that scared
the hell out of me.
So you know, it's
alive, you know.
And so I said,
well, I don't know.
Said, I think I'll take it.
So I took it, and I put
it in my jacket pocket,
you know, the Levi
jackets that we wore.
And so we continued on.
And Jose got out his binoculars
and started looking down
the ways and so forth.
And we could see that
this gouge went like this,
and then it made a turn.
And I says, what the
heck is that, you know?
What's at the end that
would make a turn like that?
Anyway, so we got maybe 100
yards from-- close to it,
as close as we could get.
Because there's a lot
of smoke, and it's hot.
The rocks are hot, so it kind
of plays heck with your feet.
And so we sat there and looked.
And so Jose looked
through his binoculars,
passed them on to me.
And we're looking at this.
And it looks like an avocado.
It's got a hole
in the side of it.
And Jose says, you
know, there's--
[SPEAKING SPANISH] And I
said, oh shit, you know.
And I look in.
And yeah, there's
some little critters
walking back and forth, you
know, but not really walking.
They're sliding.
They like slide back and forth.
And so he looks at them,
and I'm looking at then.
At then we hear-- at least
I start hearing some voices
and such, like--
the only thing I
could compare it
was like a Jackrabbit,
when a Jackrabbit is hurt.
You know, real high-- a
baby when it's really mad,
you know, and that high shrill?
That was what I was hearing.
And so Jose was
hearing that, too.
And we're looking
through the binoculars
and seeing these guys and trying
to figure out what in the world
they are.
Because they're very
different from us, you know.
Not that anybody-- you know,
I mean, Ben was very different
when I met him.
You know, Ben had freckles all
over his face and so forth.
But after a while, he's
all right, you know?
He just another person.
Well, these guys
were different, too.
Their eyes were kind of
bigger, and their faces
were kind of like different.
Couldn't see, you know,
much more than that.
They moved back and forth.
Jose could see a little
bit than I could.
He was taller in the brush.
But we're looking out.
Eventually, you know, you kind
of get used to them, you know.
You're watching.
And well, you know--
and so Jose says, well, shall
we go in there and help them?
I don't know.
I says, I don't know.
Jose says, what is it, you know?
And I says, well, we'll find out
when we get there and inside.
Well, no, I don't--
I don't feel good
about going there.
And we're talking.
And then we're-- you know, I'm
getting these images through
my head and the
sounds and all that.
And I'm getting these
pictures of tall buildings.
Nah, they ain't no tall building
in San Antonio nor anywhere
that I'd ever been.
At seven years of age,
I ain't been nowhere.
And so these tall buildings
and I'm looking from up high.
I must have been in another
building or something.
I'm looking up high, and I'm
looking at these buildings
crumbling down.
And there's cars
down there, you know.
Automobiles, and it's going,
and there's color to it.
They're going down
there, wow, you know?
What is it, you know?
And I'm seeing
these things coming.
And then the other thing
that I see is these--
I used to call them when
I was a kid [SPANISH]..
There's just numbers, you know.
And the only thing I could
make out was from 1 to 10
because that's as much
as I knew about numbers.
I didn't know--
learned up that far.
But they would come in
combinations of numbers,
you know, and such.
And so you could see them
come through and so forth.
And as watching, I
couldn't figure that out.
And so--
>> And you saw that
through the binoculars?
>> No.
I saw it through
my mind in my head.
>> And you were
looking at the craft?
>> And I was looking
at the craft.
And so I'm trying
to-- so all and that,
and Jose wants to go
over there and look.
I told him, look, you
know, I tell you what.
You go look.
I'm going back to the ranch.
You know, I don't
understand this.
But you know, I had no idea
what in the world/ and I still
don't.
I still don't have no
idea what that was.
>> Soon after, the children
took Jose Padilla's father
and a police officer named
Eddie Apodaca to the crash site.
He also remembered that someone
had moved the object or ship
and tried to hide it.
Besides the shipping gone,
the beings that they had seen
were also missing.
>> Faustino had got Eddie
Apodaca to come over to his
house.
And it was about noon.
And so Jose and I went there.
And Eddie Apodaca wanted
us to show him and Faustino
where this took place.
So we went there.
We showed them where it was.
And when we got there,
we're on this ledge.
And it's probably
maybe like 2 o'clock
in the afternoon and such.
And so we're going
down the ledge.
And I says, it was
right over there.
But it ain't there.
You can't see it, you know?
And so he says, what do
you mean right over there?
I don't see anything over there.
And Jose said, well, it
was there when we left.
And I says, nah, you know,
what's going on guys?
And so Faustino, with
better judgment, says,
well, let's go
down there and see.
So we kept on walking.
And sure enough, there it it.
Had a lot of dust
over it, debris--
probably winds or whatever.
I don't know.
But anyway,
camouflaged, you know--
you couldn't see it.
The sun may have been
in a different direction
than when it was before.
You know, anyway,
so we went there.
We found it, and
we were relieved.
Because, boy, you
know, in those days,
they didn't spare the rod.
You got a whipping.
And it didn't have to
be your dad, you know.
If you did anything wrong.
If you'd told a lie or
you mistreated somebody,
anybody was entitled to
straighten you up, you know.
And then if you went
told your dad, you know,
Gonzalez gave me a whipping.
OK.
You're getting
another one, you know.
So yeah.
And so they says,
OK, you stay here.
We're going to go
check it out, you know.
And so they went in
and checked it out.
And then they came out of there.
And so they're saying--
>> They went inside?
>> They went inside.
And then they came out.
And they were different people
when they came out, you know?
When they went in, they
were really grumpy.
You know, they must've
gotten grumpy out there
because they thought
maybe we're were
telling a lie or something.
But they came out and they
were saying, you know,
Faustino [SPEAKING SPANISH].
And said, yeah, sí.
And instead of saying,
you know, he says,
did you get the
feeling that that
was bigger when we were
inside than we were outside?
So it appeared to
them bigger inside
than what the actual size was.
And that was incomprehensible.
I had-- you know, at that age,
I had no idea what they meant.
>> Reme Baca recalls that a
few days after the military
arrived, Jose Padilla's
father spoke with them.
>> When we're getting into
his house, there's a vehicle--
an Army vehicle sitting
there, a military vehicle.
And so we went in
the kitchen door.
And his dad was at the
screen door with them.
And so we went in, put
the stuff in the kitchen,
and then went over
to join his dad.
And so they were talking.
And so his dad was--
they were talking
about the military
coming in and putting
a gate in there
because they needed to get in.
And so it's-- well, come on in.
You know, so he invited him in.
And a the soldier came in.
And they talked back
and forth and so forth.
And finally, they agreed.
OK, yeah.
Sure, you know, OK.
How long is it going to take?
And they said, aw, heck.
We shouldn't be there
any more than two weeks,
maybe even less than that.
But we've got this
experimental weather
balloon that fell there--
accidentally fell there.
And so we've got to get it out.
And also you know, we need
to do it as soon as possible.
But we need to kind of keep
things quiet, you know.
And he said, OK.
So that was essentially--
the guy left.
He shook our hand.
Seems a real nice guy.
And so he took off.
And it wasn't very
much after that they
started bringing the equipment--
a road grater and a low boy
truck.
That's a semi with a real low
trailer, about 4 foot tall.
And they brought the
tractor trailer in there.
There was people with torches--
welding torches.
And they're building this rack
on top of a truck out of metal.
They're welding that.
It's like at an angle
as such in there.
So they're doing what they know
how to do, I guess, you know.
And so they're doing
that and picking stuff.
There was probably one guy there
always at the tent at night--
he stayed back
there every night--
Three guys that would
work around there,
working on the trailer and
so forth, and picking up
stuff and so forth.
And finally, on the last--
I didn't go there
every time and such.
But most of the time
I went with Jose.
Sometimes, you
know, in the evening
when it was getting
dark, and we'd
go up there and take a look.
But on the final day,
he come and got me.
And he says, you know, I says
I've been watching these guys,
and I think they're
just about done.
Jose and I talked
about a souvenir.
And so we waited
until everybody left.
That night, they
pulled down the tent.
And they used to have
a radio in there.
They took their radio.
They took their lantern.
There was no electricity.
There was no power
generators, you know.
And so they did what
they always did,
except this time they drove
that truck out the gate--
the brand new gate
that they made--
and they'd locked it.
They put a lock on it.
And they went up,
and they parked it
alongside the road,
the dirt road.
That's what you've
got, you know.
And they parked
it alongside there
so it would be out of the way.
And they got in their
jeeps and they went down
to the Owl Bar and Cafe.
We would go-- we
would stop by there
very often at the Owl Bar and
Cafe after they had left there.
And we saw them there.
They didn't see us.
We knew who they were.
They didn't know who
we were, you know.
And so we'd see them there,
dancing and drinking beer.
Anyway, so they did--
they were creatures of habit.
They did that that night.
And that is when we went up on
the trailer and got that piece.
Initially, we untied the
tarp, and I pulled it off.
And I stepped into that hole and
stayed there on the edge of it,
holding the tarp.
And Jose went in
further into the craft
and started jerking on that.
But he couldn't get it off.
It was strong.
So he went over to the truck
and got one of these bars.
They use those bars
to check the change
when they lowered the tension.
They call them cheater
bars, you know.
Most people don't know
what a cheater bar is.
But that's what he used.
And he got on m
and he jerked it.
And he took it down.
Great.
So now we've got a piece.
And he handed it to me.
And I took it, held on
to it, looked at it.
And it reminded me of a sundial.
Doesn't it look like a sundial?
That's what I
could relate to it.
Looked like a sundial to me.
Anyway, so then we
got out of there.
He wrapped it up in his
pocket in his jacket.
And we went home.
>> Shortly, after finding
the craft the military came
to the home of Jose Padilla,
looking for something that had
been lost.
It was a good thing that Jose
decided that the piece should
be kept by Reme.
Reme decided to bury it in a
room of farm tools at his home.
And then something
extraordinary happened.
This was not a
science fiction story.
>> The metal piece was
subject to analysis in England
and Mexico.
The results were truly amazing.
If these findings
are confirmed, it
will show not only
that this story's real
but that we have
to ignore allergy
from other worlds in our hands.
I'm Jaime Maussan,
and I'll see you
on the next episode of "Nuevo."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Gaia presented "Nuevo"
with Jaime Maussan.